Diamond tools get faster the more you use them.
Gold tools have a 'silk touch' ability.
Stone tools have a 'fortune' ability on certain blocks.
Molten tools have a 'smelt touch' ability and can set mobs on fire!
Obsidian tools are extremely durable and can be found in dungeons.
You can make molten tools by combining an iron tool and a lava bucket.
Wyverns are neutral mobs.. at day.
Different fish give certain effects.  Try them in potion-making!
Incinerators can turn unwanted waste into ash or coal.
Potions can be made by combining different items in a cauldron.  Try it out!
If you're unsure if its quicksand, try throwing an item on it first.
Quicksand and gravel drop useful items when mined with stone tools.
Scaribous can be spotted by their footsteps they leave behind.
Relays repeat a gear-signal.
Wait blocks repeat and delay a gear-signal.
NOT gates output an inverted input.
AND gates require both inputs be active to produce an output.
OR gates produce an output when either input is active.
XOR gates produce and output only if 1 of its inputs is active.
Build above or look to the sky, there might be remarkable places to be found!
You can find or craft sticky torches, they can be thrown like snowballs to light up unreachable places.
Refridgifreezers can 'chill' certain items.
Fire charges, lightning charges, and toxic charges apply unique attributes to potions.
Hanging roots and dead bushes drop sticks when mined.
Crates are a great portable storage container.
Drawers are a great way to store vast quantities of certain items.
Pigs are sentient.  Do not disturb them.
You can pick up your vulpine friends with an empty bucket.
Name tags are crafted with 1 paper and 1 string and can be used to make mobs not despawn, or apply a cool name to an item or mob.  Use a name tag on a crafting table to apply a name to it.
You can pick up a small slime with a bucket to find where slime chunks are.  Or to just have a cool adventuring buddy.
Flowers can breed new exotic flowers when grown on farmland.
Foxes love balls!
You can make bouncy balls with 1 slimeball and 1 of any dye!
You can color-code your storage by using colored chests.
Dynamite can by made splitting TNT in a crafting table.  Rocket-jumping ahoy!
Got a bunch of fish you don't want?  Make them into fish stew!
Wrenches can be used to rotate or change aspects of certain blocks.
Swiftness effects flight speed.
Cloud blocks negate fall damage.
Paintings can be reset after being used by placing them into a crafting table.
Wearing a glass block will let you breathe underwater.
Sponges can be powered by gears.
You can remove items from a table using a wrench.
Lilypads can be grown in a cauldron to make more waterlilies!
Brown dye can be made by either cooking brown mushrooms in a furnace, or by combining red and green dye.
Obsidian can be made by freezing a lava bucket in a refrigdifreezer.
Sand can be made by freezing soul sand in a refridgifreezer.
Ice blocks can be made by freezing a water bucket in a refridgifreezer.
Netherrack can be made into cobblestone by freezing it in a refridgifreezer.
Bonefish can be made into bone meal.
Cauldrons produce particles when their held fluid is ready to be made into a potion.
Watermelon slices can stack to 64, but will only occasionally heal you.
The Construction effect gives you increased block placement range and faster placing speed.
Ever dreamt about cheese?  Now it's a reality!  Yes, really!  Cook a milk bucket, eat a horse!
Artificial hives speed up the growth of nearby crops.
You can stack buckets! ...well, the golden type anyways.
Feeling lucky?  Test your luck with a four-leaf clover!  No rainbows to point at it though...
You can make fancy furniture items!  Even ones made of stone and glass too!
In the mood to eat something frosty and delicious?  Try mixing it up by making ice cream using a bowl, milk, and ice!
With a single potion, some gunpowder, and leather, you too can create fiery cocktails of mass destruction.
You can make.. brickshelves..?
Make your furnaces extra tough by surrounding them with basalt to create forges!
Flowers can spread to adjacent farmland, though you may want to keep them away from your crops...
Bricks can be thrown!  Just don't throw them at glass.
Don't place a brick block on top of a glass table.
Combining ash, gravel, and dye, makes stucco.
Obsidian tools can be repaired using Obsidian Tool Repair Kits, found in Nether dungeons.